I'm Ed leak managing director of Midas
media today I'm going to show you a case
study of a social media strategy map and
marketing map that shows the complete
customer Journey the tactics we use at
each step the metrics that we use to
measure and of course the actual
business results the revenue in real
terms stage one is awareness the problem
with social media today is noise as a
result people are getting harder to
reach all the time for example Twitter
is a stampede of tweets and information
and Facebook well it's more difficult
than ever to generate views and reach
without paying Brands must treat their
audiences with respect the initial
content you post will be the Prelude to
someone either tuning in or turning off
therefore at the awareness stage we
avoid self-promotional content instead
we we want to ingratiate your brand with
your new audience here's an example
Everyone likes to win therefore we ran a
competition on the client's bestselling
product which was a an entry-level 3D
printer it's important when running
competition to align your prize with
your offering don't don't give away an
iPad unless you're selling iPads and of
course don't give away a holiday unless
you're a travel company so to give the
new Facebook page and the competition
some legs we created custom Facebook
advertising audiences the total spend
was modest the results however were
pretty compelling as you can see to
support the awareness stage we
researched and sourced useful content
from around the web to share this
content related to and resonated with
the client's product offering providing
information educational and
entertainment value so at stage two is
demand and here we looked at engagement
as a way of driving traffic to their
website and we intertwined branded
content the important metric at this
stage is the traffic uh driven from
social media updates and activity so
this is a new page to give it a boost we
introduce Facebooks behavioral data
which is a bounty of lwh hanging fruit
to tap into uh we created email
audiences which are your customers
uploaded to Facebook and it matches
their email address to their account
secondly we created remarketing
audiences and from these two data sets
we built lookalike audiences off the
back we gradually promoted branded
content to these audiences again
spending a modest amount of AD budget
but driving direct traffic to the
client's website as you can see from
this example done correctly a small
budget can stretch far with clicks as
cheap as two P this traffic also helps
populate the additional remarketing
lists that we had set up and we can use
those going forward stage three is
transactions I.E sales so we built
momentum with Impressions engagement and
we built direct visits to the website
which is great but next it was direct
Product Promotion time but remaining
cautious uh we only dangled a toe in the
water and what does that toe look like
we used a trial before you buy offer
because product trials work they low
risk they're low commitment and they
don't have to be free to be effective
either the client offers a printing Hub
facility where customers can upload
their own design get it printed in a
color of their choice and it's sent to
them a few days later here's the offer
using a carousel advert and even at the
early stage we're seeing lots of
Engagement but the important question
did they purchase well after just three
months on Facebook we were driving
direct sales and also assisting with
sales through remarketing and return
visit
so who says social media doesn't drive
sales but before we crack open the
champagne we need to remember that
social media strategy doesn't stop at
the transaction stage stage four is
adoption here we make existing fans and
customers feel good about your brand so
we drove further engagement through
answering customer questions and queries
offering after sales support with social
media and just generally being timely to
respond to to this new audience adoption
comes full circle on the initial
awareness phase working hand inhand
together where awareness is driving new
eyeballs on your brand adoption is about
keeping and delighting the audience that
you've built up so here's an example we
invited a pinion from this new following
the release of a new logo and branding
offered a prime opportunity to ask the
newly built audience for their opinion
it's a simple tactic but it was highly
effective furthermore we started to see
additional positive engagement across
social posts and updates on a daily
basis this was great it's important to
note the simplest way to stifle adoption
is to become overzealous with your
promotional posts therefore we set
expectations early by committing to
typically no more than 20% branded
directly promotional posts stick to that
rule and people won't Tire of your brand
in doing this your audience will allow
you to push more promotional pieces to
them in time and that brings me neatly
to the final fifth stage which is
advocacy
advocacy is the hardest one element of
social media marketing you should never
underestimate the power of
recommendations and positive word of
mouth when all five stages are aligned
you will inspire certain members of your
audience to engage beyond the norm they
will go out their way to engage with
talk about and share your Brand's
message more frequently these extended
acts of Engagement act as an indorsement
and make your loyal followers true brand
Advocates this of course extends the
reach and will in turn influence others
this is what the final populated social
media marketing map looked like and the
return on investment well that was over
500% not too shabby which begs the
question isn't it time you implemented
the social media marketing map for your
e-commerce store thanks for watching